#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

This is a library that allow you to manage an amount of 8 segments LED based displays using only three digital pins of an Arduino.

= Details =

How to use it:

1) Download the code last version files (.h and .cpp) and the example file.

2) Rename it removing the version number, for example from LED8SegDisplay595.0.8.cpp to LED8SegDisplay595.0.8.cpp.

3) Create a directory LED8SegDisplay595 below your <Arduino dir>\libraries

4) Put the .h and .cpp files inside it.

5) Implement the circuit, connect to the Arduino.

6) Open EightSegDisplayDemo.ino file, adjust it (basically the port numbers and the number of displays). It´s not necessary to implement all the circuit, you can for example no implement the termometer stuff and the demo stills working.

7) Enjoy!

Below, the class itens are described.

{{{
class LED8SegDisplay595
{
   public:
// Constructor
//   int _displayCount: number of 8 segment displays to be managed
//   int _clockPin: number of Arduino port that´s connected the clock pin of the first 595 CI (CI pin 12)
//   int _latchPin: number of Arduino port that´s connected the latch pin of the first 595 CI (CI pin 11)
//   int _dataPin: number of Arduino port that´s connected the data pin of the first 595 CI (CI pin 14)
     LED8SegDisplay595(int _displayCount, int _clockPin, int _latchPin, int _dataPin);
//   set the corresponding display mask (from now on, it will be considered common cathod)
     void setDisplayMask(byte display);
//   clear display mask
     void clearDisplayMask(byte display);     
//   show error message Er.      
     void errorMessage(int millissecs);
//   write a value in the displays
     void write(byte value);
     void write(float value, int decimalPlaces);
//   switch off the RGB LED corresponding colors      
     int debug;    //Indicates debug mode  
     byte displayMask[8]; //=  {B00000000,B00000000,B00000000,B00000000,B00000000,B00000000,B00000000,B00000000};        
     char buf[33];
     long errMilissecs;
   private:
     int displayCount;  //Number of LEDs to manage  
     int clockPin;  //Pin connected to Pin 11 of 74HC595 (Clock)
     int latchPin;  //Pin connected to Pin 12 of 74HC595 (Latch)
     int dataPin;   //Pin connected to Pin 14 of 74HC595 (Data) 
     void shiftOut(byte dataOut); 
};
#endif
}}}